This is a first concept of the proof-of-concept game of Arianne. I copied&pasted the text, so you can read the "pure" concept at first, and then a second time with comments. Enjoy!
 
You are the leader of a Gladiator-school in the world of Arianne.
Your mission is to send your gladiators into the Arena of the capitol of 1001, the eternal city Arianne, where the gods themselves set their feet onto earth for the first time, and to become the leader of the most famous school.

You therefore buy one or more gladiators, buy them equipment, and train them in your gymnasium. Your gladiator will have the action-skills "attack", "defense", "evasion", and "combat-movement". You will hire trainers that additionally will have the mercantile-skill "training". Your gladiator will have the attributes "Strength", "Speed", "Size", "Breath", "Reflexes" and "Balance"
 
And then, when the great day comes, you send them into the arena, where they have to survive - or die - for your glory against the gladiators of the other players.
Your goal is to gain "fame", which is gained by entertaining the audience perfectly. Making your gladiators win their fights is helpful, but not necessary, or at least not sufficient: The audience must like what you gladiators show them. Making up the perfect killer-machine, with helm, gladius and shield, yes, that might be good, but the audience will also like some savage looking, unorthodox barbarian, clad in the skin of a bear, and fighting with bears claws. It’s the audience, that decides, if a gladiator has to receive the final blow, when he falls wounded, or if he might live, to fight another day. It’s a cruel world.

You can use parts of all of your fame, to get better gladiators, better equipment of better trainers for them. You’ll never lose fame, but may sometime lacking the progress necessary to stay, or become the leader of the pack. Entertain your audience!

In the arena, you command your gladiator. You can see the fight from many perspectives, including, but not limited to 1st person and 3rd person. The audience - some of them other school-owners - can watch the fight, to draw their conclusions. You must issue commands to your gladiator, but must also accept that in the heat of battle he must make some quick decisions by himself.
 
After each single battle, you will be given fame. The winner of a turney will given some more, of course. When creating a new character, you’ll "use" fame. When "retiring" a gladiator, and giving back equipment or money (as long as this was gained by using fame, which will always be the case in this game), you’ll get back fame for use on other gladiators. You can use fame to hire competent trainers. You can keep surviving gladiators as trainers for other gladiators.

You are the leader of a Gladiator-school in the world of Arianne.
[You’ll not "be" a character, or "control" a character, but "command" one, or more than one. And we will already have meta-gaming.]
Your mission is to send your gladiators into the Arena of the capitol of 1001, the city Arianne, where the gods themselves set their feet onto earth for the first time, and to become the leader of the most famous school.
[This game should already take place in the world of our desires. In Arianne, as well as here, your goal should be to become the most famous player]
 
You therefore buy one or more gladiators, buy them equipment, and train them in your gymnasium.
[That’s what you will do with your roleplaying-characters, except that you’ll call it "create", and not "buy"… ;-) ]
Your gladiator will have the action-skills "attack", "defense", "evasion", and "combat-movement". You will hire trainers that additionally will have the mercantile-skill "training". Your gladiator will have the attributes "Strength", "Speed", "Size", "Breath", "Reflexes" and "Balance"
[All this is an extract from Arianne-design.]

And then, when the great day comes, you send them into the arena, where they have to survive - or die - for your glory against the gladiators of the other players.
[As in Arianne, the character is irrelevant, it’s just your tool to enjoy the game. It’s the good player that gets awarded, not the good character]
Your goal is to gain "fame", which is gained by entertaining the audience perfectly.
["fame" is exactly the same as "Karma" - it is hereby decided that this Player-value will get this name in Arianne as well!]
Making your gladiators win their fights is helpful, but not necessary, or at least not sufficient: The audience must like what you gladiators show them.
[As in Arianne: Entertain yourselves, entertain each others]
Making up the perfect killer-machine, with helm, gladius and shield, yes, that might be good, but the audience will also like some savage looking, unorthodox barbarian, clad in the skin of a bear, and fighting with bears claws.
[Making up unusual characters will be awarded]
It’s the audience, that decides, if a gladiator has to receive the final blow, when he falls wounded, or if he might live, to fight another day.
[We’ll already be using hitlocations. You’ll be awarded "fame" when you do what is good for Arianne - let your character go, when it’s time, and get awarded, or keep it, for it’s own sake]
It’s a cruel world.
[As will be roleplaying in Arianne]

You can use parts of all of your fame, to get better gladiators, better equipment of better trainers for them.
[That’s the way you’ll use fame later on at time of character-creation in Arianne]
You’ll never lose fame, but may sometime lacking the progress necessary to stay, or become the leader of the pack.
[Fame is a value that will never be used to punish!]
Entertain your audience!
[repeat at nauseam: This is as in Arianne!]
 
In the arena, you command your gladiator.
[You’ll use the same controls as in Arianne-interface, and will be issuing commands]
You can see the fight from many perspectives, including, but not limited to 1st person and 3rd person.
[The view will be the same as in Arianne. We’ll start right away with 3rd person, but cannot proceed without 1st person. Ragnar-GD will not do a pure 3rd person-game]
The audience - some of them other school-owners - can watch the fight, to draw their conclusions.
[We’ll implement the server-based computing, and the ability to project the events to other players]
You must issue commands to your galadiator, but must also accept that in the heat of battle he must make some quick decisions by himself.
[Again: You send commands to your character, you don’t control him. The outcome - if he swings from the left or from the right, hits or misses - will be server-computed]

After each single battle, you will be given fame. The winner of a turney will given some more, of course.
[like, i.e. being the first player to solve a certain riddle or quest] When creating a new character, you’ll "use" fame. When "retiring" a gladiator, and giving back equipment or money (as long as this was gained by using fame, which will always be the case in this game), you’ll get back fame for use on other gladiators. You can use fame to hire competent trainers. You can keep surviving gladiators as trainers for other gladiators.
[In Arianne-RPG, you’ll receive fame for retiring and dismissing characters back to the game as well, but can also decide to keep retired characters for further use]
 
------------------------------------
 
Ok, that’s it for now, there must be something left to do for Version 0.2    :)
 
What we will NOT implement, is:
Magic
Buildings and landscapes - the only place in existence will be the arena.
Idle animations - we still have combat-animations.
Many items - some gladiator-weapons and -armour must suffice.
Any creatures but those few we make gladiators from. Humans at first.
Massive multiplayer - perhaps later on we’ll have more than one-on-one combat, but not from start away.
Complete attributes
Complete derived attributes
Traits
Many professions for characters
Power-houses, except for gladiator-schools (part of Arianne meta-gaming. This is not in the Arianne design-outline as of now, but is planned for].

Ok. All this are suggestions, and of course I concentrated on what is important for me, and that most components are directly reusable in Arianne - if they prove their worth, that is. Now it’s your turn. Please also advice on where to even further reduce complexity as well.
 
Ragnar-GD
Arianne Apprentice Lead Gamedesigner

 
